Employee Benefits (GMC)
Designed for:
Sigmoid
1About Milestone
Emedlife
Established in the year 2003, Emedlife
Insurance Broking Services Limited is
backed by the promoters of the
renowned Apollo Hospital Group.
We’re an ISO 9001-2015 UKAS certified
insurance broker with a team of over
300 plus enthusiastic and learned
professionals
2003 2005 2009 2012 2018
Enters Launch of
We specialize in Employee Benefits, Started Forays into ISO Certified
Operation Media Structured EB Portal
Property Insurance, Liability Insurance,
Sector
Credit
Marine Insurance &Engineering
Insurance
Insurance We also customize insurance
solutions for Specialty Risks such as 2004 2008 2010 2016 2019
Expand
Sports, Media & Entertainment, Successful Tie-up’s Enters Power 100,000Cr+ Launch of
Events& Title Insurance with major Operations & Energy Assets Online
Corporates and to Pune Sector insured Retail Portal
Manufacturing Kolkata
and services sector
2About
Our
Emedlife
story
so far
2003 450+ Cumulative 7 Geographies 4500+ Clients
Amongst the Employees Years Of covered Insured
first 10 broking experience- 92% retained
houses to start 500
Operation
3WHY Emedlife?
One of the earliest Broking houses to work in both Life and Non-Life sectors, Emedlife is part of Apollo Group of Hospitals
4Growing Trust in the Market
5Sigmoid’s GMC Policy
Go Digit General Insurance
Insurance Partner
Insurance Broker: TPA Partner: In-House
Emedlife TPA
6GROUP MEDICLAIM POLICY (GMC)
Policy Period: 29-03-2023 to 28-03-2024
7POLICY COVERAGES
SL. NO. COVERAGES GMC -EXISTING TERMS & CONDITIONS
1 Sum Insured Coverage Family Floater Sum Insured of INR 5,00,000
2 Family Definition 1+3 Self + Spouse + 2 Dependent Children
3 Age Bracket 0-80 Years
4 1ST, 2nd & 4THYear Exclusion clause Waived for all
5 1ST30 days Exclusion clause Waived for all
6 Pre –Existing Disease Exclusion Clause Covered for all
7 Pre & Post Hospitalization Coverage 30 days Pre–hospitalization & 60 days Post –hospitalization respectively.
Single AC for Normal Hospitalization and No capping for ICU hospitalization ( Inclusive of nursing
8 Room Rent or Room Restriction charges), Opting for a room of a Higher category than the eligible category will result in higher cost for
all Hospilization services, which must be borne by the claimant
9 Co-Pay Clause No Copay
10 Limit on any one Disease or Aliment No Capping
11 Day Care Procedures Covered
8POLICY COVERAGES
SL. NO. COVERAGES GMC -EXISTING TERMS & CONDITIONS
12 Gipsa/ PPN Rates Applicable
13 Maternity Benefits –Limits & Coverages INR 50,000 for Normal Delivery and INR 75,000 for C-sec Delivery
14 9Months Waiting period for maternity Waived for all
15 New Born baby Coverage from day 1 Covered uptoFloater Sum Insured
16 Pre & Post Natal Expenses Pre & Post Natal Expenses to the limit of INR 10,000 is covered within Maternity Limit for IPD & OPD
17 Healthbaby care Expenses Covered within Maternity Limit
18 Well Mother Expenses Covered within Maternity Limit
19 Lasik Surgery Covered for the Power of the Eye is +/-5
20 Congenital External Disease Covered in case of life threatening diseases. Congenital internal disease is covered for all
Ayush treatment in a Government hospital/ hospital recognised by GOI and/ or accredited by quality
21 Ayush Cover council of India/ NABH. Covered up to 25% of in Patient sum insured for per member with 0%
deductible
22 Widow/ Widower Covered for one year
9POLICY COVERAGES
SL. NO. COVERAGES GMC -EXISTING TERMS & CONDITIONS
24 Hospitalization / Injury Arising out Terrorism Covered for all
1% of Sum Insured Subject to a maximum of Rs.2000/, whichever is less per Occurrence on admission
25 Emergency Ambulance Charges
only
26 Claims Intimation No Claims intimation required for Reimbursement claims & day care procedure claims
27 Re-Imbursement Claims Reporting / Submitted period Claim reporting / Submission period within 30 days from the date of Discharge
28 Bereavement cover 100% in case of claimed amount will be paid if the claimant passes away during hospitalisation
29 Animal / Serpent Attack Covered up to Rs. 5000/-on OPD & IPD basis
30 All other terms & Conditions As per Standard GMC policy
10SCOPE OF INSURANCE COVER
➢Inclusions :
✓ Only “in-patient” hospitalization expenses.
✓ Active line of treatment with minimum 24 hours hospitalization. (Excludes
hospitalization for only diagnosis/investigation/observation/research)
✓ Pre-hospitalization expenses of 30 days before admission and post hospitalization
expenses for 60 days from the date of discharge for a claim eligible
hospitalization.
➢Exclusions :
✓ Non - Medical Expenses - Registration/Admission/Documentation fees, hospital
surcharge, food bills for attendants, telephone charges, Television charges,
pharmacy charges etc.
✓ Other standard exclusions[Please refer to next slide]
11STANDARD EXCLUSIONS
Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of disease
Dental treatment of any kind
Congenital external diseases or defects/anomalies
HIV and AIDS
Hospitalization for convalescence, general debility, intentional self-injury, use of intoxicating drugs/ alcohol.
Venereal diseases (Sexually Transmitted Diseases)
Injury or disease caused directly or indirectly by nuclear weapons
Injury or disease directly or indirectly caused by or arising from or attributable to War or War-like situations
Naturopathy
Any non-medical expenses like registration fees, admission fees, charges for medical records,
cafeteria charges, telephone charges, etc
Cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids
Any cosmetic or plastic surgery except for correction of injury
Hospitalization for diagnostic tests only
Vitamins and tonics unless used for treatment of injury or disease
Infertility treatment
Voluntary termination of pregnancy during first 12 weeks (MTP)
12NON-MEDICAL EXPENSES
Administrative Expenses Services
Documentation Expenses
▪ Admission Charges
▪ Private nurse charges
▪ Documentation charges
▪ Registration Charges
▪ Telephone Charges
▪ Medical records charges
▪ Medical Records/Medico legal
▪ Fax Charges
▪ Discharge summary
charges
▪ Food/Beverages
▪ Birth Certificate
▪ Attendant Stay charges
▪ Diet
▪ Death Certificate
▪ Relative Stay charges
▪ Electricity Charges
▪ Medical Certificate
▪ Additional Stay
▪ Water Charges
▪ Gate Pass/Attendant pass
▪ T.V/Internet Charges
Consumables
▪ Overhead charges
▪ News Paper/Magazines
▪ Establishment Charges ▪ Antiseptic/disinfectant
Charges
▪ Tax solutions
▪ Stationery Charges
▪ Surcharge ▪ Soaps
▪ Linen/Laundry Charges
▪ Incidental charge ▪ Powder
▪ Mortuary/Coffin Charges
▪ Waste disposal Charge ▪ Oil/Cream
▪ Sanitary pads/Diapers
▪ Cassette/CD/Film charges
▪ Oxygen Cylinder
▪ Health Foods
13REIMBURSEMENT CLAIM PROCEDURE
Insured visits Non
Collects All Original
Network Hospital for
Takes Discharge, pays Documents, Receipts
Treatment and intimate
for Treatment and Investigation
the claim to Emedlife
Reports from Hospital
through Application
Incase Additional
Upload all soft copies information is required,
TPA Helpdesk
along with filled claim Insurer will inform the
acknowledges receipt of
form to Emedlife App. employee via email with
claim documents and
within 20 days from Date 3 reminders or
start claim processing
of Discharge employee can check
through Emedlife App.
If claim is declined,
denial mail will be sent.
If claim is Payable,
If documents are not
Payment will be made to
Reimbursement Claim Check List submitted within 30
employee via NEFT
days, claim may be
[Please refer to next slide] declined
14REIMBURSEMENT CHECKLIST
➢ Mandatory :
✓ 1. Reimbursement claim form A & B.
✓ 2. Government ID proof of Patient & employee.
✓ 3. Discharge Summary.
✓ 4. Final Bill & complete breakup.
✓ 5. Final bill amount receipt.
✓ 6. All Original Investigation reports.
✓ 7. Original Medicine bills.
✓ 8. Cancelled cheque with name printed / First Page of Bank Passbook / Bank Statement.
➢ Optional :
✓ Other documents, if any (pre & post hospitalization bills)
✓ GPLA Certificate in case of maternity reimbursement claim.
✓ Cataract Case -STICKER OF LENCES
✓ MLC and FIR COPY in case of accident.
✓ If more than 15 beded hospital need certification / Regd. No. of the hospital.
15CASHLESS CLAIM PROCEDURE
Emergency Hospitalization
Planned Hospitalization
Patient gets admitted in hospital
Cashless request to be sent from hospital to Go-Digit 48
hrs prior to admission
Cashless request to be sent to Go-Digit after admission
Go-Digit will review the request and send the approval letter or query
letter or cashless rejection letter
If the request is approved insured need to sign If the cashless rejected, insured has to pay the
all relevant documents before discharge expenses
All non-medical expenses to be borne by the
Collect all the original documents from
insured
hospital and submit it within 20 days to Go-
Payment of the bills will be made to the Digit along with duly filled claim form
concerned hospital
Go-Digit will review the documents and takes the decision based on policy terms
and conditions
If the claim is approved, payment will If the claim is under query, a query If the claim is rejected, a rejection
be made to insured as per policy letter will be sent to hospital letter will be sent along with the
terms & conditions reason for rejection
Click on the website link https://www.medibuddy.in/networkHospitals to fetch the network hospitals list for cashless
16Emedlife Digital Portal
17ESCALATION MATRIX
For any kind of clarification,
Please get in touch with Emedlife SPOC:
Account Manager Mr. Sagar
Contact No +91 7290023926
Designation Account Manager
Mail ID sagar_v@emedlife.in
Escalation 1 Ms. Sandhya HS
Contact No. +91 9899090739
Designation Manager
Mail ID Sandhya_hs@emedlife.in
Final Escalation Mr. Narendra Kumar
Designation Associate Vice President
Mail ID narendra_ru@emedlife.in
18About
Emedlife
www.E1m9 edlife.inFlexible Benefit Plan (FBP)Flexible Benefit Plan (FBP) is where Employees have the option to choose their own components of salary and the amount that goes to each component. The various components they can choose are, Provident Fund, House Rent Allowances (HRA), Leave Travel Allowance, Telephone & Internet Allowance, Food Coupons, Children Education Allowance, Professional Development Allowance, Driver Reimbursement, Books and Periodicals Reimbursement, Vehicle Fuel and Maintenance Reimbursement and Gym and Club Membership. Under these components employees can claim Tax Benefit. The provident fund option is taken manually by the HR team and the same is updated in the back end by the finance team. Other FBP options employees would need to declare in their Greythr portal. All the FBP components are explained below.Provident Fund (PF):The default PF is Rs. 1800/-. Employees can opt to increase their PF contribution from Rs. 1800/- to 12% of Basic. This is a yearly exercise as such once they choose to increase their option will be locked for the remaining financial year and they will only be able to change their contribution back to Rs. 1800 in the next financial year.Example:If the Employees Fixed portion of monthly salary is Rs. 1 lac per month, the basic salary would be 40% of Rs. 1 lac i.e. Rs. 40,000/-:Scenario 1 (Default Rs. 1800/- fixed PF) : Rs. 1800 Employer's contribution + Rs. 1800 Employee's contribution would be deducted - Aggregate total monthly deduction in Fixed Salary would be Rs. 3600/-Scenario 2 (Opting for 12% of PF on Basic) : Rs. 4800 Employer's contribution + Rs. 4800 Employee's contribution would be deducted - Aggregate total monthly deduction in Fixed Salary would be Rs. 9600/-House Rent Allowance (HRA):Tax-Benefit under House Rent Allowance (HRA) available only if the employee is living in rented accommodations. HRA for tax benefit will be available upto the minimum of the following three (calculated on monthly basis):1. Actual house rent allowance received2. Actual house rent paid minus 10% of basic salary3. 40% of Basic SalaryA copy of the Original Rent Agreement and Rent receipts must be submitted to claim the Tax Benefit.Leave Travel Allowance:The Tax Benefit on Leave Travel Allowance is restricted only to the travel cost incurred by the employee, his spouse and dependent children & parents within India. The tax exemption is not valid for the costs incurred during the entire trip which might include expenses such as food expenses, shopping expense and other expense.Given below is a list of expenses that is exempted under Leave Travel AllowanceTravel by air- Economic air fare by the shortest route or amount spent will be exempted depending on whichever is lesser.Travel by rail- A.C. first class fare by the shortest route or the amount spent on travel will be exempted depending on whichever is lesser.Place of origin and destination place of journey connected by rail but journey performed by other mode of transportPlace of origin & destination not connected by rail(partly/fully) but connected by other recognized Public transport systemPlace of origin & destination not connected by rail(partly/fully) and not connected by other recognized Public transport system alsoThe employee must submit proof of their travel such as boarding passes, flight tickets, invoice of travel agent, duty pass and other documentary proof for availing the Tax benefit under LTA. LTA can be claimed twice in a block of four years, the current block is 2018-2021.Telephone & Internet Allowance:Tax exemption under Telephone & Internet allowance can be claimed by submitting copies of Bills and the eligible amount for Tax benefit will be upto the amount received under the same header in the employees monthly payslip.Food Coupons:Food coupons of Rs. 2970/- per month can be availed. Food Coupons will be given as Credit to Sodexo/Meal card. Once availed an employee must continue the food coupon for the whole Financial Year.Children Education Allowance:Tax Exemption is granted for an allowance of INR 100 per month, per child upto a max of two children. Adopted children may also be included. No payment proofs are required. Only a declaration needs to be submitted on the number of children and their age.Professional Development Allowance:Employees can claim tax benefit against any expenses incurred towards any courses, degree, etc. which helps employees in improving their skill/knowledge. Employees would need to submit copies of original bills/invoices.Driver Reimbursement:Employees using four-wheelers for personal and official purposes including regular travel to office from home can claim tax benefit on declaration against driver expenses of upto Rs. 900 per month. Employees would need to submit a Declaration of the amount claimed and any document confirming that the car is owned by the Employee.Vehicle Fuel and Maintenance Reimbursement:Employees using vehicles for personal and official purposes including regular travel to office from home can claim tax benefit against fuel and maintenance expenses. The upper limit eligible for a car is Rs. 1800 per month and for two wheelers is Rs. 900 per month. Employees would need to submit copies of bills/invoices and any document confirming that the vehicle is owned by the Employee.Books and Periodicals Reimbursement:Employees can claim tax benefit against any expenses incurred towards books and periodicals which helps employees in improving their skill/knowledge. Employees would need to submit copies of original bills/invoices.Gym and Club Membership:Employees can claim tax benefit against any expenses incurred towards Gym Memberships. Employees would need to submit copies of original bills/invoices.Payroll Session
SCALE | SPEED | INTELLIGENCE
www.sigmoid.comAGENDA
Offer Letter Compensation Break-up
Flexible Benefit Plan (FBP)
Payslips
FBP & Tax Declaration
Important dates
Escalation Matrix
Contact Details
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 2Offer Letter Compensation Break-up
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 3FLEXIBLE BENEFIT PLAN
Sl No. Flexible Component Upper Limit (in INR)
1 PF By default, 1800 OR
12% of Basic
2 HRA 40% of Basic
3 Telephone & Internet 48000
4 Food Coupon Up to 35640
5 LTA 120000
6 Children Education Allowance 2400
7 Professional Development Allowance 500000
8 Driver Reimbursement 10800
9 Books and Periodicals Reimbursemen t 48000
11 Vehicle Fuel and Maintenance Reimbu rsement 21600
12 Gym and Club Membership 48000
13 Special Allowance Remaining Amount
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 4FLEXIBLE BENEFIT PLAN
Flexible Benefit Plan Policy (Click to Open)
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 5PAYSLIPS
Monthly Gross Salary Break-up: Deductions
▪ Basic - 40% of Fixed ▪ Mandatory Deductions
▪ Flexible Components
✔ Employee PF - 12% of Basic or Rs.
▪ Special Allowance - Remaining balance
1800/-
▪ Food Coupons - If opted in Flexible Component, will be
✔ Income tax
paid separately – Up to Rs. 2970/-
✔ Professional tax - Rs. 200/-
▪ Company PF - Will be paid separately - 12% of Basic or
▪ Other Deductions
Rs. 1800/-
✔ Lunch subscription
✔ Office pantry
✔ Employee loan/advance
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 6Sample Pay Slip
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 7FBP & TAX DECLARATIONS & PROOF SUBMISSION
Two Schemes of taxation
▪ New regime or old regime to be opted at time of tax declaration FFeeww ddeedduuccttiioonnss athvaati laarbele a ivna Oilaldb ltea xin r eogldim e,
nreogt iimn en enwot t ianx nreewgi maree :a re:
▪ Regular deductions not available in new regime,
however tax slab varies.
▪ All regular deductions are available in case one ▪ Standard deduction of 50000 from salary
opts for old tax regime. ▪ House rent allowance
▪ Bracket impact 5 lakhs to 15 Lakhs of gross total ▪ Section 80C investments
income ▪ Housing loan interest
▪ Medical insurance premium
▪ Education loan interest
▪ Savings bank interest
▪ Leave travel allowance
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 8TAX DECLARATIONS & PROOF SUBMISSION
Purpose Investment Options and Tax Savings under old regime
▪ Tax optimization
a. HRA – Rent agreement and rent receipts, tax deductions as
Process per (rent paid or rent paid (minus) 10% Basic whichever is
▪ Declarations to be opened once a year at the lower)
time of joining b. Telephone & Internet bills – Exemption on lower of bills
▪ Employee to declare by 20th of the month submitted or annual paid amount under it
▪ Yearly declarations are open once a financial c. LTA - Exemption on lower of bills submitted or annual paid
year in April amount under it, Can be claimed twice under in block of 4
▪ Proof submission to be provided in January by calendar years for domestic travel. Current block 2018-2021.
15th every year. d. Professional Tax – Fixed at Rs. 2400/-
e. Standard Deductions – Fixed at Rs. 50,000/-
f. Section 80C (upto Rs. 1,50,000/-), some options:
• Employee PF (Rs. 1800 per month, added as per joining
date)
• 5 year Bank Fixed Deposit – can be opened in Axis Bank
• PPF Account – can be opened in Axis Bank
• Life Insurance – Can be purchased Online
• Tax saving Mutual Funds – Can be purchased Online or
through Axis Bank
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 9TAX DECLARATIONS & PROOF SUBMISSION
g. Section 80D (Medical Insurance):
• Medical insurance premium self, spouse & children – Rs.
25,000/-
• Medical insurance premium Parents – Below 60 – Rs. 25,000/-
& Above 60- Rs. 50,000/-
• Preventive health checkup – Rs. 5000/- on overall limit of Rs.
25000/- or Rs. 50000/-
h. NPS – upto Rs. 50,000/- - Can be opened through Axis Bank
i. Housing loan – Only on Interest portion of EMI upto Rs. 2 lacs
j. Education loan – Only on Interest portion of EMI - No limit
k. Food Allowance – Paid separately in Sodexo card
k. FBP Allowance – As per FBP Policy
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 10TAX DECLARATIONS & PROOF SUBMISSION
Investment Options and Tax Savings under new regime
• Employee must opt for New tax regime in Greythr when
declaration opens for a financial year in April or at the time of
joining
• Declaration the amount of telephone and internet bill:
exemption on lower of bills submitted or annual paid amount
under telephone and internet allowance.
• Tax will automatically be deducted at applicable slab rate.
• At time of proof of investment (POI) submission, need to
submit original bill copies of telephone and internet bills.
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 11GREYTHR Demo:
• DemoIMPORTANT DATES
▪ IT & FBP Declarations - till 22nd on the Joining month, Yearly Declarations in April
▪ Payroll processing - If joining before 15th same month, else the following month
▪ Monthly Salary Credit - On or before 1st of the following month (i.e. July salary on
or before 1st August)
▪ Monthly salary issues - to be raised before 5th of the following month
▪ Proof of investments (FBP & IT) submission - Between Jan 01st to 15th
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 13ESCALATION MATRIX
Issue 1st Level Escalation
Salary Credit: Delay in salary, Wrong amount, Tax Deductions Swati Swapnika
Tax Declarations: Help with declaring tax Pankaj Pankaj
Proof of Investments Swati Pankaj
Salary Account Opening: Axis Bank Sarath Sarath
Axis Bank: PPF Account, Mutual Fund Investments, NPS, Account
AXIS bank team AXIS bank team
issues
Lunch Deductions & Office pantry deductions Rizwan Swati
Salary advance / Company Loan Deductions Swati Swapnika
PF Issues Lakshman Swati
Income tax filings, Form 16 Pankaj Abinaya
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 14CONTACT DETAILS
Name Designation Phone Number Email
Piyush VP, Business Operations 7878 038 517 Piyush.khemka@sigmoidanalytics.com
Swapnika Senior Finance Manager 8971 742 742 swapnika@sigmoidanalytics.com
Rizwan Operations Manager 9742 575 222 rizwan@sigmoidanalytics.com
Smorojit Senior Manager – Human Resources 9620 577 666 smorojit@sigmoidanalytics.com
Swati Sr. HR Operation Specialist 7044 063 953 swati@sigmoidanalytics.com
Sarath HR Operation Specialist 9916 953 313 sarathj@sigmoidanalytics.com
Pankaj Finance Consultant 9880 706 841 Pankaj.agarwalla@sigmoidanalytics.com
Lakshman PF Consultant 9980 993 263 lakshman.ehrstatute@gmail.com
www.sigmoid.com Sigmoid Confidential 15THANK YOU
WELCOME TO SIGMOID FAMILY!
www.sigmoid.com contact@sigmoidanalytics.com Follow us on: